---
title: "Phase-map synthesis from magnitude-only MR images using conditional score-based diffusion models with application in training of accelerated MRI reconstruction models"
collection: publications
category: workshops
permalink: /publication/2026-01-01-paper-title-number-w1
excerpt: 'This work addresses the scarcity of raw k-space MRI data by synthesizing realistic phase maps from magnitude-only MR images using conditional score-based diffusion models. The generated phase maps enable the creation of synthetic k-space datasets for training deep learning MRI reconstruction models. We show that models trained on the synthesized data outperform GAN- and smooth phase-based alternatives and achieve reconstruction quality close to training with real k-space data.'
date: 2026-01-01
venue: 'Proceedings of the IEEE/CVF Conference on Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition (CVPR) Workshops, 2026'
presentation: 'Poster Presentation' #
#slidesurl: 'https://drive.google.com/file/d/1whwTwWkJf2FcBn4iWku7baWxDBevQf86/view?usp=sharing'
paperurl: 'https://openaccess.thecvf.com/content/CVPR2026W/PHAROS-AIF-MIH/papers/Sahin_Phase-map_synthesis_from_magnitude-only_MR_images_using_conditional_score-based_diffusion_CVPRW_2026_paper.pdf'
#bibtexurl: 'https://api.crossref.org/works/10.1016%2Fj.jocmr.2024.100987/transform/application/x-bibtex'
codeurl: 'https://github.com/mberk-sahin/phase-map-synthesis-with-SBDM'
#citation: 'Your Name, You. (2009). &quot;Paper Title Number 1.&quot; <i>Journal 1</i>. 1(1).'
---

Accelerated magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) enabled by the training of deep learning (DL)-based image reconstruction models requires large and diverse raw k-space (Fourier domain) datasets. In most clinical MRI applications, due to storage and patient privacy concerns, raw k-space data is discarded and magnitude-only images are the only component saved. Consequently, a large portion of the DL-based MRI reconstruction literature has either relied on small training datasets or has used one of the few available open-source k-space datasets. At the same time, the growing number of anonymized magnitude-only image registries/databases motivates the development of techniques that can use them as training datasets for generalizable DL-based reconstruction models. Here we propose to address this challenge by employing a generative approach based on conditional score-based diffusion models (SBDMs): given a magnitude-only MR image, it synthesizes a phase map (in the image domain) that realistically corresponds to the magnitude-only image. We evaluate its generative capabilities in a downstream DL-based reconstruction task whereby a large k-space dataset is generated by combining the SBDM-synthesized phase-maps and the corresponding magnitude-only images, and this k-space dataset is then used to train a DL model for accelerated MRI reconstruction. We compare the performance of the resulting DL model versus those trained according to (a) a naive approach that uses smooth phase, (b) a k-space training dataset generated using synthesized phase maps derived from a generative adversarial network, and (c) the ground truth k-space data. Our results suggest that the DL model trained from SBDM-synthesized k-space data outperforms the other approaches in terms of quantitative metrics as well as qualitatively observed reconstruction fidelity, i.e., whether the reconstructed images include erroneous or hallucinated features that could adversely impact diagnostic accuracy.